### Image Segmentation of a human Spleen using MONAI alpha_AI_in_biology

This dataset was derived from the biomedical image dataset challenge Medical Segmentation Decathlon (MSD). The MSD challenge had one goal which was to identify a general-purpose algorithm for medical image segmentation. Participants were tasked with developing an algorithm and testing it in 7 different organs (brain, heart, hippocampus, liver, lung, prostate and pancreas) with 13 target regions of interest. They were then tasked with testing the same model without changing the hyperparameters in the "mystery phase" containing 3 hidden datasets (colon, hepatic vessels and spleen) with 4 target regions of interest. The dataset consists of biomedical images of different organs from CT and MRI images from different patients for a total of 2,633 images acquired across multiple institutions, anatomies and modalities during real-world clinical applications. For the purpose of this repository, we used the spleen dataset to segment out the spleen from the CT scans containing other organs. The spleen data set consists of 61 portal-venous phase CT scans from patients undergoing chemotherapy treatment for liver metastases. This dataset contains large variations in the field-of-view (in an image what fraction of the image is seen in the final CT image) of CT images making some images have greater resolution than others and in theory more difficult to segment the spleen. The dice similarity coefficient (DSC) was used to test the performance of segmentation to compare pixels of the segmented output to the pixels of manually segmented images also termed ground truth. Another metric similar to DSC that was used to evaluate image segmentation was normalized surface dice (NSD) to more precisely assess segmentation at the boundaries/surfaces of the segmented image rather than the volumetric overlap of the images for a more precise measure of segmentation. A high DSC indicated similarity between segmented image and the ground truth indicating effective segmentation. CT scan images were acquired from the Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, US.

### MONAI and image segmentation
In this repositry project we used Medical Open Network for AI (MONAI) to segment the spleen from medical images using the the Project-MONAI 3d segmentation tutorials as a framework and to test the power of MONAI with segmentation and medical images. The dataset and tasks are derived from the Medical Segmentation Decathlon Challenge.   
